{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf410
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10860\viewh15700\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Von Glitschka / Illustrator & Designer\
www.artbackwash.com\
www.glitschka.com\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\i \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f2\i0\b \cf0 Icon Illustration\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0 \cf0 Communication is the key with icons. By their very nature they are suppose to communicate ideas and concepts quickly and easily. This iconic art form has various types of applications such as GUI (Graphic User Interface) and print. GUI icons are pixel based where as print icons are almost always vector based. The style on either type can vary too but the common bond between all icons is simplicity and clarity of communication.\
\
This tutorial will walk you though the process of creating a set of presentation icons for Novell.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 Tango Vector Dance / Total Time: Approx. 18hrs
\f0\b0 \
\

\f2\b 01_Tango_Style:
\f0\b0  A popular style for icons on the Linux computing system is one called 'Tango'. This diagram comes from their web site and describes how this style should be accomplished and clearly defines it's look and feel and also includes a color palette to use. All though the colors are not iron clad.\
\
Note the thick outer line, contrasting with the thinner inner lines, subtle use of blended colors (gradients) and a nice drop-shadow. My icons will match this style so this is all part of the research I am doing upfront before I even start.
\f2\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural
\cf0 02_Reference_Image:
\f0\b0  The icons I will be doing is a whole set. For this tutorial I'll walk you through a couple. The first icon is a 'PDA Device' so I need to know what a 'PDA Device' looks like. This image shows one of the more popular types, a 'BlackBerry'. I'll use this to base my icon on.\
\

\f2\b 03a_Building_Vectors, 03b_Building_Vectors, 03c_Building_Vectors:
\f0\b0  I start building my shapes in vector format. With icons you can build a lot of your content using basic shapes like circles, rectangles, rounded corner rectangles, ovals and squares. As seen with the blue outlined shapes I have two circles and two rectangles and from this I'll create the end shape I desire.\
\
Once I have all my core shapes built I am ready to start working out my color.\
\

\f2\b 04_Color_Scheme:
\f0\b0  I start laying in color picking up cues from my reference. Of course this is an icon so I am purposely over simplifying my art. Instead of a screen full of smaller icons I have one etc.\
\
I tend to work out my color scheme in flat colors and strokes of color. I'll then go back and add any blended FX and gradients at the next stage in my process.\
\

\f2\b 05_Glassy_FX:
\f0\b0  Some people prefer using the gradient tool to create blends but I find that too limiting and I want more control over my art so I use shape blending rather then the gradient tool. Besides if you look at the curved blend on the right you couldn't make the gradient tool follow that curve, you could get close but no cigar. So old school vector methods still work best from time to time.\
\
The pink outlined box shows the mask I'll put the blended shapes into. The gradient on the left is also a shape blend. You could do this one using a gradient it's personal preference. Another reason I use shape blends is I can dictate the amount of steps between the blend and this helps with doing GUI icons. Letting the computer interpolate a gradient sometimes brings about unwanted results but if you set the steps to match the iconic resolution you can avoid this. But that is a very technical aspect of GUI design so I'll leave it for another tutorial.\
\
You can see the other blended FX I have in the background of the screen that is in place already.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\b \cf0 06_Detailing:
\f0\b0  This shows all the blended content in place and you can see how the icon really pops now. We've added detailing without adding complexity which is the key to iconic illustration. Detail is good but complexity is bad.\
\

\f2\b 07_Thicker_Outer_Line:
\f0\b0  Toggle between this image and the previous and you'll notice the thicker outer line. This added beefiness to the art really anchors it well and makes the icons work better at smaller sizes too. In general it's always good to have thinner inner lines and thicker outer lines. Your style however will be the ultimate indicator of when to do this though.\
\

\f2\b 08_Creating_Dropshadow, 09_Dropshadow_Blending:
\f0\b0  Once again I use shape blends rather then the gradient tool. The subtle shadow adds a nice dimension to the art now and offsets the icon from it's background.\
\

\f2\b 10_Final_PDA_Icon:
\f0\b0  My icon art for the 'PDA Device' is now complete.\
\

\f2\b 11_Building_Badge_Vectors:
\f0\b0  I'll walk you through one more icon. This one is for 'Security' unlike the previous icon this isn't a literal one. It's more of a conceptual icon. So I chose a visual metaphor to represent 'Security' that being a badge type of shield. The badge was easy to create, I just created half of it then flipped it and fused it together. The star was created using the star tool.\
\

\f2\b 12_Working_Out_Colors:
\f0\b0  Pretty standard colors for this icons. Gold and Silver. Note the style of a darker shade for the stroke and lighter shade for the fill.\
\

\f2\b 13_Building_Glassy_FX, 14_Masking_Glassy_FX:
\f0\b0  The first glassy FX I create is the gold star. For continuity sake I am using the same curved shape in all my icons to create the faux reflections. The pink outline shows the mask I'll apply to the blended shapes.\
\

\f2\b 15_Building_Glassy_FX2:
\f0\b0  The glassy FX on the shield itself is a little more complex. I wanted the shield to have a beveled look of sorts with a spine running down the middle. To accomplish this and give the illusion of a light source the glass FX had to be a darker shade on one side than the other. This meant using four blended shape parts instead of two. I then masked them into the pink outlined shape shown.\
\

\f2\b 16_Glassy_FX_Done:
\f0\b0  Most of the icon is done at this point. We just need to polish up the art and add some detailing.\
\

\f2\b 17_Thicker_Outer_Line:
\f0\b0  Toggle between the previous image and this one to see how I beefed up the outer line. As I said earlier, doing this really anchors it well and makes the icons work better at smaller sizes.\
\

\f2\b 18_Creating_Dropshadow, 19_Dropshadow_Blended:
\f0\b0  Even though all my icons will have drop-shadows they are not all identical. This one for example if you compare it to the PDA has a smaller inner circle it's blending from. This is because the PDA has a wider base then the badge icon. So it's the same method but adapted to work specifically with the art. This is important because one size never fits all when it comes to illustration.\
\

\f2\b 20_Final_Badge_Icon:
\f0\b0  The final icon in all its iconic splendor.\
\

\f2\b 21_Whole_Set:
\f0\b0  This shows the entire set of icons done in the Tango style. Each of these were created using the same process documented in this tutorial. I have included a source file (CS2 AI) on one of these icons so you can dissect it for yourself and see how it was layered etc.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1\i \cf0 Note: These tutorials are meant to help you discover, enhance and facilitate your own creative growth and skills. So don't feel obligated to take my comments or examples as gospel. Use them as spring boards to explore, experiment and have fun developing your own creative process. That is how you'll benefit most from these downloads.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
}